HA Replicas Rework (#2161)
timescale/docs: cloud/backup-restore-cloud.md

# Backup and restore

Timescale Cloud automatically handles backup and restore for all
services. To manage this, we use pgBackRest. There is no need to perform
backups for your Timescale Cloud service manually.

Timescale Cloud automatically creates one full backup every week, and
incremental backups every day. Additionally, all WAL ([Write-Ahead Log]
[wal]) files are retained back to the oldest full backup. This means
that you always have a full backup available for the current and
previous week, and your service can be restored to any point during this
time period.

In the event of a storage failure, a service will automatically restore
from backup to the point of failure. In the event of a user error where

> a point-in-time recovery needs to be done, please contact support. We do
> not currently offer point-in-time recovery through the UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a point-in-time recovery needs to be done, please [contact support][support]. 
```

> To understand how a restore from backup occurs after a storage failure,
> please see the following diagram. (Note: compute failures are able to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This diagram helps you to understand how a restore from backup occurs after a storage failure.
<Highlight type="note">compute failures are able to
```

avoid a full restore from backup. For more information, see our docs on

> [rapid recovery][rapid-recovery].) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[rapid recovery][rapid-recovery].) </Highlight>
```

and the current day.

## Restore from backup

If your database fails, the restore process begins automatically. This occurs in
two stages:

1.  Restore: The PostgreSQL service uses `pgBackRest` to restore from the most
    recent successful backup. In most cases, the most recent successful backup
    is no more than a day old; either a full weekly backup, or an incremental
    daily backup. How quickly this occurs is limited by the CPU size of the
    service. Large services can take a long time to restore.
1.  Recovery: When the restore is complete, recovery can begin. This is where
    the database replays the WAL segments that have been created since the last
    successful backup. This stage is processed using a single thread, so the
    speed of this stage is dependent not on the size of the service, but on the
    amount of data between the last successful backup and the WAL segments
    stored. If your last successful backup was recent, this step will be quicker
    than the restore step.

If you want to check if your service is in the recovery phase, you can run this
query from the `psql` prompt:

```sql
SELECT pg_is_in_recovery()::text
```

> [support]: https://www.timescale.com/support

Reviewer: [support]: https://www.timescale.com/support

Author: hi @Rajakavitha1, thanks for the review! 🙇 Is there something you wanted me to adjust here?

Reviewer: Hi @ggodeke !!! adding the link to support might help

# Backup and restore

Timescale Cloud automatically handles backup and restore for all
services using the `pgBackRest` tool. You don't need to perform
backups for your Timescale Cloud service manually.

Timescale Cloud automatically creates one full backup every week, and
incremental backups every day. Additionally, all WAL
([Write-Ahead Log][wal]) files are retained back to the oldest full backup. This means
that you always have a full backup available for the current and
previous week, and your service can be restored to any point during this
time period.

In the event of a storage failure, a service automatically restores
from backup to the point of failure. In the event of a user error where
a point-in-time recovery needs to be done, please [contact support][support]. 

This diagram helps you to understand how a restore from backup occurs after a storage failure.

> <Highlight type="note">compute failures are able to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

<Highlight type="note">
Compute failures are able to
```

> avoid a full restore from backup. For more information, see our docs on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
avoid a full restore from backup. For more information, see the
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I understand what this means?

Author: I'll rework this -- thanks!

> [rapid recovery][rapid-recovery].) </Highlight>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[rapid recovery section][rapid-recovery].) 
</Highlight>
```
